README.md, before:

# VMI Kernel Fuzzer for Xen Project*

This project is intended to illustrate the harnessing required to fuzz a Linux kernel module using AFL through the Xen VMI API. The tool utilizes Xen VM forks to perform the fuzzing, thus
allowing for parallel fuzzing/multiple AFL instances to fuzz at the same time. Coverage guidance for AFL is achieved using Capstone to dynamically disassemble the target code to locate
the next control-flow instruction. The instruction is breakpointed and when the breakpoint triggers, MTF is activated to advance the VM ahead, then the processes is repeated again. The
tool allows fine-tuning how many control-flow instructions to allow the fuzzing to encounter before terminating. This provides an alternative to timing out the fuzzing process.

Hardware requirements: Intel CPU with VT-x and EPT enabled.

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license

# Demo

![](demo.gif)

# Capability & Limitations

Using this tool you can fuzz both ring-0 (kernel-mode) and ring-3 (user-mode) code, including transition from one to the other using system calls.

Using VM forks for fuzzing on Xen restricts you to fuzz only code that does not perform any I/O operation. This means the target code can't fetch data from disk or communicate over the network. All code and data used for running your target needs to be already in memory when fuzzing begins. Interrupts are blocked during fuzzing so code that relies on timers is also out-of-scope. Furthermore, fuzzing is currently limited to a single vCPU so you won't be able detect race-conditions.

# Table of Contents
1. [Install dependencies](#section-1)
2. [Grab the project and all submodules](#section-2)
3. [Compile & Install Xen](#section-3)
3.b [Install & Boot Xen from UEFI](#section-3b)
4. [Create VM disk image](#section-4)
5. [Setup networking](#section-5)
6. [Create VM](#section-6)
7. [Grab the kernel's debug symbols & headers](#section-7)
8. [Configure the VM's console](#section-8)
9. [Build the kernel's debug JSON profile](#section-9)
10. [Compile & install Capstone](#section-10)
11. [Compile & install LibVMI](#section-11)
12. [Compile kfx](#section-12)
13. [Patch AFL](#section-13)
14. [Add harness](#section-14)
15. [Setup the VM for fuzzing](#section-15)
16. [Connect to the VM's console](#section-16)
17. [Insert the target kernel module](#section-17)
18. [Star fuzzing using AFL](#section-18)
19. [Debugging](#section-19)
20. [FAQ](#section-20)

# Setup instruction for Ubuntu:

The following instructions have been mainly tested on Debian Bullseye and Ubuntu 20.04. The actual package names may vary on different distros/versions. You may also find [https://wiki.xenproject.org/wiki/Compiling_Xen_From_Source](https://wiki.xenproject.org/wiki/Compiling_Xen_From_Source) helpful if you run into issues.

# 1. Install dependencies <a name="section-1"></a>
----------------------------------
```
sudo apt install git build-essential libfdt-dev libpixman-1-dev libssl-dev libsdl1.2-dev autoconf libtool xtightvncviewer tightvncserver x11vnc uuid-runtime uuid-dev bridge-utils python3-dev liblzma-dev libc6-dev wget git bcc bin86 gawk iproute2 libcurl4-openssl-dev bzip2 libpci-dev libc6-dev libc6-dev-i386 linux-libc-dev zlib1g-dev libncurses5-dev patch libvncserver-dev libssl-dev libsdl-dev iasl libbz2-dev e2fslibs-dev ocaml libx11-dev bison flex ocaml-findlib xz-utils gettext libyajl-dev libpixman-1-dev libaio-dev libfdt-dev cabextract libglib2.0-dev autoconf automake libtool libjson-c-dev libfuse-dev liblzma-dev autoconf-archive kpartx python3-pip gcc-7 libsystemd-dev cmake snap
```

# 2. Grab the project and all submodules <a name="section-2"></a>
----------------------------------
```
git clone https://github.com/intel/kernel-fuzzer-for-xen-project
cd kernel-fuzzer-for-xen-project
git submodule update --init
```

# 3. Compile & Install Xen <a name="section-3"></a>
----------------------------------
There had been some compiler issues with newer gcc's so set your gcc version to GCC-7:

```
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-7 7
```

Make sure the pci include folder exists at `/usr/include/pci`. In case it doesn't create a symbolic link to where it's installed at:
```
sudo ln -s /usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/pci /usr/include/pci
```

Before installing Xen from source make sure you don't have any pre-existing Xen packages installed:
```
sudo apt remove xen-* libxen*
```

Now we can compile & install Xen
```
cd xen
echo CONFIG_EXPERT=y > xen/.config
echo CONFIG_MEM_SHARING=y >> xen/.config
./configure --disable-pvshim --enable-githttp
make -C xen olddefconfig
make -j4 dist-xen
make -j4 dist-tools
sudo su
make -j4 install-xen
make -j4 install-tools
echo "/usr/local/lib" > /etc/ld.so.conf.d/xen.conf
ldconfig
echo "none /proc/xen xenfs defaults,nofail 0 0" >> /etc/fstab
systemctl enable xen-qemu-dom0-disk-backend.service
systemctl enable xen-init-dom0.service
systemctl enable xenconsoled.service
echo "GRUB_CMDLINE_XEN_DEFAULT=\"hap_1gb=false hap_2mb=false dom0_mem=4096M\"" >> /etc/default/grub
update-grub
reboot
```

Make sure to pick the Xen entry in GRUB when booting. You can verify you booted into Xen correctly by running `xen-detect`.

Note that we assign 4GB RAM to dom0 above which is a safe default but feel free to increase that if your system has a lot of RAM available.

## 3.b Booting from UEFI

If Xen doesn't boot from GRUB you can try to boot it from UEFI directly <a name="section-3b"></a>

```
sudo su
mkdir -p /boot/efi/EFI/xen
cp /usr/lib64/efi/xen.efi /boot/efi/EFI/xen
cp /boot/vmlinuz /boot/efi/EFI/xen
cp /boot/initrd.img /boot/efi/EFI/xen
```

Gather your kernel boot command line's relevant bits from /proc/cmdline. Copy & paste the following into /boot/efi/EFI/xen/xen.cfg:

```
[global]
default=xen

[xen]
options=console=vga hap_1gb=false hap_2mb=false
kernel=vmlinuz console=hvc0 earlyprintk=xen <YOUR KERNEL'S BOOT COMMAND LINE>
ramdisk=initrd.img
```

Create an EFI boot entry for it:

```
efibootmgr -c -d /dev/sda -p 1 -w -L "Xen" -l "\EFI\xen\xen.efi"
reboot
```

You may want to use the `-C` option above instead of `-c` if you are on a remote system so you can set only the next-boot to try Xen. This is helpful in case the system can't boot Xen and you don't have remote KVM to avoid losing access in case Xen can't boot for some reason. Use `efibootmgr --bootnext <BOOT NUMBER FOR XEN>` to try boot Xen only on the next reboot.

# 4. Create VM disk image <a name="section-4"></a>
----------------------------------
20GB is usually sufficient but if you are planning to compile the kernel from source you will want to increase that.
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=vmdisk.img bs=1G count=20 
```   

# 5. Setup networking <a name="section-5"></a>
----------------------------------

Create a network bridge using NetPlan at /etc/netplan/02-xenbr0.yaml:
```
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  bridges:
    xenbr0:
      dhcp4: no
      addresses: [ 10.0.0.1/24 ]
```

Apply the NetPlan configuration:
```
sudo netplan generate
sudo netplan apply
```

Enable IP forwarding:
```
sudo echo "net.ipv4.ip_forward=1" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
sudo sysctl --system
```

Enable NAT and save the iptables rule, make sure to change eth0 to match your interface name facing the internet:
```
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
sudo apt-get install iptables-persistent
```

# 6. Create VM <a name="section-6"></a>
----------------------------------
Create the domain configuration file by pasting the following, for example into `debian.cfg`, then tune it as you see fit. It's important the VM has only a single vCPU.

```
name="debian"
builder="hvm"
vcpus=1
maxvcpus=1
memory=2048
maxmem=2048
hap=1
boot="cd"
serial="pty"
vif=['bridge=xenbr0']
vnc=1
vnclisten="0.0.0.0"
vncpasswd='1234567'
usb=1
usbdevice=['tablet']
vga="stdvga"
# Make sure to update the paths below!
disk=['file:/path/to/vmdisk.img,xvda,w',
      'file:/path/to/debian.iso,xvdc:cdrom,r']
```

Start the VM with:

```
sudo xl create debian.cfg
```

You can connect to the VNC session using your favorite VNC viewer or by simply running:

```
vncviewer localhost
```

In case it's a remote system replace localhost with the IP of the system; note however that the VNC connection is not encrypted so it may be better to setup an SSH tunnel to connect through.

Follow the installation instructions in the VNC session. Configure the network manually to 10.0.0.2/24 with a default route via 10.0.0.1

# 7. Grab the kernel's debug symbols & headers <a name="section-7"></a>
----------------------------------
Inside the VM, using Debian, you can install everything right away

```
su -
apt update && apt install linux-image-$(uname -r)-dbg linux-headers-$(uname -r)
```

On Ubuntu to install the Kernel debug symbols please follow the following tutorial: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Debug%20Symbol%20Packages](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Debug%20Symbol%20Packages)

From the VM copy `/usr/lib/debug/boot/vmlinux-$(uname -r)` and `/boot/System.map-$(uname -r)` to your dom0, for example using scp.

# 8. Configure the VM's console <a name="section-8"></a>
---------------------------------
Inside the VM, edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `console=ttyS0` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` line. Run `update-grub` afterwards and `reboot`.

# 9. Build the kernel's debug JSON profile <a name="section-9"></a>
---------------------------------
Back in dom0, we'll convert the dwarf debug information to json that we copied in Step 7.  We'll need Go 1.13 or newer for this. You can install it using snap as follows:

```
sudo snap install --classic go
```

If you distro's repository has go 1.13 or newer you can also install it from there (package name is golang-go).

Now we can build dwarf2json and generate the JSON profile. Change the paths to match your setup and make sure your dom0 has enough RAM as this may take up a lot of it.

```
cd dwarf2json
go build
./dwarf2json linux --elf /path/to/vmlinux --system-map /path/to/System.map > ~/debian.json
cd ..
```

# 10. Compile & install Capstone <a name="section-10"></a>
---------------------------------
We use a more recent version from the submodule (4.0.2) then what most distros ship by default. If your distro ships a newer version you could also just install `libcapstone-dev`.

```
cd capstone
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig
cd ../..
```

# 11. Compile & install LibVMI <a name="section-11"></a>
---------------------------------
```
cd libvmi
autoreconf -vif
./configure --disable-kvm --disable-bareflank --disable-file
make -j4
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig
cd ..
```

Test that base VMI works with:
```
sudo vmi-process-list --name debian --json ~/debian.json
```

# 12. Compile kfx <a name="section-12"></a>
---------------------------------
```
autoreconf -vif
./configure
make -j4
```

# 13. Patch AFL <a name="section-13"></a>
---------------------------------
```
cd AFL
patch -p1 < ../patches/0001-AFL-Xen-mode.patch
make
cd ..
```

# 14. Add harness to target kernel module or function <a name="section-14"></a>
---------------------------------
The target kernel module needs to be harnessed using two CPUID instructions with leaf 0x13371337.
See the `testmodule` folder for an example.

```
static inline void harness(void)
{
    unsigned int tmp;

    asm volatile ("cpuid"
                  : "=a" (tmp)
                  : "a" (0x13371337)
                  : "bx", "cx", "dx");
}
```

You can insert the harness before and after the code segment you want to fuzz:

```
    harness();
    x = test((int)test1[0]);
    harness();
```

You can also use software breakpoints (0xCC) as your harness which can be placed by standard debuggers like GDB. Use `--harness-type breakpoint` for this mode, which is particularly useful when you don't have access to the target's source-code to compile it with the CPUID-based harness.

# 15. Setup the VM for fuzzing <a name="section-15"></a>
---------------------------------
Start `./kfx`  with the `--setup` option specified. This will wait for the domain to issue the harness CPUID and will leave the domain paused. This ensures that the VM is at the starting location of the code we want to fuzz when we fork it.

```
sudo ./kfx --domain debian --json ~/debian.json --setup
```

You may optionally want to do this in a `screen` session, or you will need a separate shell to continue.

# 16. Connect to the VM's console <a name="section-16"></a>
---------------------------------
```
sudo xl console debian
```

You should see a login screen when you press enter. Proceed to login.

# 17. Insert the target kernel module <a name="section-17"></a>
---------------------------------
There is a testmodule included with the repository, you can copy it into the VM and compile it simply by running `make`. Afterwards, load it via:

```
sudo insmod testmodule.ko
```

The VM's console should now appear frozen. This is normal and what's expected. You can exit the console with `CTRL+]`. The `kfx` should have now also exited with a message `Parent ready`.

# 18. Start fuzzing using AFL <a name="section-18"></a>
---------------------------------
Everything is now ready for fuzzing to begin. The kernel fuzzer takes the input with `--input` flag, its size via `--input-limit` and the target memory address to write it to via `--address`. With AFL the input file path needs to be `@@`. You also have to first seed your fuzzer with an input that doesn't produces a crash in the code segment being fuzzed.

```
mkdir input
mkdir output
echo -n "not_beef" > input/beef
sudo ./AFL/afl-fuzz -i input/ -o output/ -m 500 -X -- ./kfx --domain debian --json ~/debian.json --input @@ --input-limit 8 --address 0x<KERNEL VIRTUAL ADDRESS TO WRITE INPUT TO>
```

You can also specify the `--limit` option of how many control-flow instructions you want to encounter before timing out the fuzz iteration. This is an alternative to the AFL built-in time-out model.

The speed of the fuzzer will vary based on how much code you are fuzzing. The more code you are exercising the fewer iterations per second you will see. The testmodule included with the project has been observed to produce a speed of 200-600 iterations per second on i5 family CPUs. Don't forget: you can run multiple instances of the fuzzer to speed things up even further by utilizing more CPU cores on your machine.

After you are finished with fuzzing, the VM can be unpaused and should resume normally without any side-effects.

# 19. Debugging <a name="section-19"></a>
---------------------------------
You can run the kernel fuzzer directly to inject an input into a VM fork without AFL, adding the `--debug` option will provide you with a verbose output.

```
sudo ./kfx --domain debian --json ~/debian.json --debug --input /path/to/input/file --input-limit <MAX SIZE TO WRITE> --address 0x<KERNEL VIRTUAL ADDRESS TO WRITE INPUT TO>
```

# 20. FAQ
---------------------------------

> Can I run this on ring3 applications?

You likely get better performance if you run AFL natively on a ring3 application but nothing prevents you from running it via this tool. You would need to adjust the sink points in `src/sink.h` to catch the crash handlers that are called for ring3 apps. For example `do_trap_error` in Linux handles segfaults, you would probably want to catch that.

> Can I fuzz Windows?

This tool currently only targets Linux. You can modify the harness to target Windows or any other operating system by adjusting the sink points in `src/sink.h` that are used to catch a crash condition. You could also manually define the sink points' addresses in case the operating system is not supported by LibVMI. In case you want to fuzz closed-source portions of Windows where you can't inject the `cpuid`-based harness, you can use `--harness breakpoint` to switch to using breakpoints as your harness. This allows you to mark the code-region to fuzz with a standard debugger like WinDBG.

> Can I just pipe /dev/random in as fuzzing input?

Yes! You can use `--loopmode` to simply read input from whatever source you want and pipe it into the VM forks. In this mode coverage trace is disabled so you will see more iterations per second.

> How do I shutdown the VM after I'm done?

You can issue `xl shutdown <domain name>` to initiate shutdown. If there are VM forks active, you need to issue `xl destroy <domain id>` for each fork before shutdown.

> Any tricks to increase performance?

To max out performance you can boot Xen with "dom0_max_vcpus=2 sched=null spec-ctrl=no-xen" which assigns only 2 vCPUs to dom0, disables the scheduler and speculative execution hardening features. You can also add "smt=0" to disable hyper-threading. Make sure your system has enough physical cores to run each vCPU as they get pinned.

> Is it possible to run the tool nested?

Yes, it has been tested running on top of VMware Workstation. In the VMware VM's CPU settings make sure to enable the "Virtualize Intel VT-x/EPT" option. Performance will be lower as compared to running it directly on the hardware.

---------------------------------
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others

Commit message:

Add Contributions section to README

README.md, after:

# VMI Kernel Fuzzer for Xen Project*

This project is intended to illustrate the harnessing required to fuzz a Linux kernel module using AFL through the Xen VMI API. The tool utilizes Xen VM forks to perform the fuzzing, thus
allowing for parallel fuzzing/multiple AFL instances to fuzz at the same time. Coverage guidance for AFL is achieved using Capstone to dynamically disassemble the target code to locate
the next control-flow instruction. The instruction is breakpointed and when the breakpoint triggers, MTF is activated to advance the VM ahead, then the processes is repeated again. The
tool allows fine-tuning how many control-flow instructions to allow the fuzzing to encounter before terminating. This provides an alternative to timing out the fuzzing process.

Hardware requirements: Intel CPU with VT-x and EPT enabled.

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license

# Demo

![](demo.gif)

# Capability & Limitations

Using this tool you can fuzz both ring-0 (kernel-mode) and ring-3 (user-mode) code, including transition from one to the other using system calls.

Using VM forks for fuzzing on Xen restricts you to fuzz only code that does not perform any I/O operation. This means the target code can't fetch data from disk or communicate over the network. All code and data used for running your target needs to be already in memory when fuzzing begins. Interrupts are blocked during fuzzing so code that relies on timers is also out-of-scope. Furthermore, fuzzing is currently limited to a single vCPU so you won't be able detect race-conditions.

# Contributions

PRs that are fixing bugs of any kind are welcome but this repository is intended to be only a reference you use to create your own fuzzing setups. We encourage you to fork it and tune it to suite your fuzzing needs. PRs to this repository that add extra features will not be accepted as we try to keep this code-base simple.

# Table of Contents
1. [Install dependencies](#section-1)
2. [Grab the project and all submodules](#section-2)
3. [Compile & Install Xen](#section-3)
3.b [Install & Boot Xen from UEFI](#section-3b)
4. [Create VM disk image](#section-4)
5. [Setup networking](#section-5)
6. [Create VM](#section-6)
7. [Grab the kernel's debug symbols & headers](#section-7)
8. [Configure the VM's console](#section-8)
9. [Build the kernel's debug JSON profile](#section-9)
10. [Compile & install Capstone](#section-10)
11. [Compile & install LibVMI](#section-11)
12. [Compile kfx](#section-12)
13. [Patch AFL](#section-13)
14. [Add harness](#section-14)
15. [Setup the VM for fuzzing](#section-15)
16. [Connect to the VM's console](#section-16)
17. [Insert the target kernel module](#section-17)
18. [Star fuzzing using AFL](#section-18)
19. [Debugging](#section-19)
20. [FAQ](#section-20)

# Setup instruction for Ubuntu:

The following instructions have been mainly tested on Debian Bullseye and Ubuntu 20.04. The actual package names may vary on different distros/versions. You may also find [https://wiki.xenproject.org/wiki/Compiling_Xen_From_Source](https://wiki.xenproject.org/wiki/Compiling_Xen_From_Source) helpful if you run into issues.

# 1. Install dependencies <a name="section-1"></a>
----------------------------------
```
sudo apt install git build-essential libfdt-dev libpixman-1-dev libssl-dev libsdl1.2-dev autoconf libtool xtightvncviewer tightvncserver x11vnc uuid-runtime uuid-dev bridge-utils python3-dev liblzma-dev libc6-dev wget git bcc bin86 gawk iproute2 libcurl4-openssl-dev bzip2 libpci-dev libc6-dev libc6-dev-i386 linux-libc-dev zlib1g-dev libncurses5-dev patch libvncserver-dev libssl-dev libsdl-dev iasl libbz2-dev e2fslibs-dev ocaml libx11-dev bison flex ocaml-findlib xz-utils gettext libyajl-dev libpixman-1-dev libaio-dev libfdt-dev cabextract libglib2.0-dev autoconf automake libtool libjson-c-dev libfuse-dev liblzma-dev autoconf-archive kpartx python3-pip gcc-7 libsystemd-dev cmake snap
```

# 2. Grab the project and all submodules <a name="section-2"></a>
----------------------------------
```
git clone https://github.com/intel/kernel-fuzzer-for-xen-project
cd kernel-fuzzer-for-xen-project
git submodule update --init
```

# 3. Compile & Install Xen <a name="section-3"></a>
----------------------------------
There had been some compiler issues with newer gcc's so set your gcc version to GCC-7:

```
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-7 7
```

Make sure the pci include folder exists at `/usr/include/pci`. In case it doesn't create a symbolic link to where it's installed at:
```
sudo ln -s /usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/pci /usr/include/pci
```

Before installing Xen from source make sure you don't have any pre-existing Xen packages installed:
```
sudo apt remove xen-* libxen*
```

Now we can compile & install Xen
```
cd xen
echo CONFIG_EXPERT=y > xen/.config
echo CONFIG_MEM_SHARING=y >> xen/.config
./configure --disable-pvshim --enable-githttp
make -C xen olddefconfig
make -j4 dist-xen
make -j4 dist-tools
sudo su
make -j4 install-xen
make -j4 install-tools
echo "/usr/local/lib" > /etc/ld.so.conf.d/xen.conf
ldconfig
echo "none /proc/xen xenfs defaults,nofail 0 0" >> /etc/fstab
systemctl enable xen-qemu-dom0-disk-backend.service
systemctl enable xen-init-dom0.service
systemctl enable xenconsoled.service
echo "GRUB_CMDLINE_XEN_DEFAULT=\"hap_1gb=false hap_2mb=false dom0_mem=4096M\"" >> /etc/default/grub
update-grub
reboot
```

Make sure to pick the Xen entry in GRUB when booting. You can verify you booted into Xen correctly by running `xen-detect`.

Note that we assign 4GB RAM to dom0 above which is a safe default but feel free to increase that if your system has a lot of RAM available.

## 3.b Booting from UEFI

If Xen doesn't boot from GRUB you can try to boot it from UEFI directly <a name="section-3b"></a>

```
sudo su
mkdir -p /boot/efi/EFI/xen
cp /usr/lib64/efi/xen.efi /boot/efi/EFI/xen
cp /boot/vmlinuz /boot/efi/EFI/xen
cp /boot/initrd.img /boot/efi/EFI/xen
```

Gather your kernel boot command line's relevant bits from /proc/cmdline. Copy & paste the following into /boot/efi/EFI/xen/xen.cfg:

```
[global]
default=xen

[xen]
options=console=vga hap_1gb=false hap_2mb=false
kernel=vmlinuz console=hvc0 earlyprintk=xen <YOUR KERNEL'S BOOT COMMAND LINE>
ramdisk=initrd.img
```

Create an EFI boot entry for it:

```
efibootmgr -c -d /dev/sda -p 1 -w -L "Xen" -l "\EFI\xen\xen.efi"
reboot
```

You may want to use the `-C` option above instead of `-c` if you are on a remote system so you can set only the next-boot to try Xen. This is helpful in case the system can't boot Xen and you don't have remote KVM to avoid losing access in case Xen can't boot for some reason. Use `efibootmgr --bootnext <BOOT NUMBER FOR XEN>` to try boot Xen only on the next reboot.

# 4. Create VM disk image <a name="section-4"></a>
----------------------------------
20GB is usually sufficient but if you are planning to compile the kernel from source you will want to increase that.
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=vmdisk.img bs=1G count=20 
```   

# 5. Setup networking <a name="section-5"></a>
----------------------------------

Create a network bridge using NetPlan at /etc/netplan/02-xenbr0.yaml:
```
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  bridges:
    xenbr0:
      dhcp4: no
      addresses: [ 10.0.0.1/24 ]
```

Apply the NetPlan configuration:
```
sudo netplan generate
sudo netplan apply
```

Enable IP forwarding:
```
sudo echo "net.ipv4.ip_forward=1" >> /etc/sysctl.conf
sudo sysctl --system
```

Enable NAT and save the iptables rule, make sure to change eth0 to match your interface name facing the internet:
```
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
sudo apt-get install iptables-persistent
```

# 6. Create VM <a name="section-6"></a>
----------------------------------
Create the domain configuration file by pasting the following, for example into `debian.cfg`, then tune it as you see fit. It's important the VM has only a single vCPU.

```
name="debian"
builder="hvm"
vcpus=1
maxvcpus=1
memory=2048
maxmem=2048
hap=1
boot="cd"
serial="pty"
vif=['bridge=xenbr0']
vnc=1
vnclisten="0.0.0.0"
vncpasswd='1234567'
usb=1
usbdevice=['tablet']
vga="stdvga"
# Make sure to update the paths below!
disk=['file:/path/to/vmdisk.img,xvda,w',
      'file:/path/to/debian.iso,xvdc:cdrom,r']
```

Start the VM with:

```
sudo xl create debian.cfg
```

You can connect to the VNC session using your favorite VNC viewer or by simply running:

```
vncviewer localhost
```

In case it's a remote system replace localhost with the IP of the system; note however that the VNC connection is not encrypted so it may be better to setup an SSH tunnel to connect through.

Follow the installation instructions in the VNC session. Configure the network manually to 10.0.0.2/24 with a default route via 10.0.0.1

# 7. Grab the kernel's debug symbols & headers <a name="section-7"></a>
----------------------------------
Inside the VM, using Debian, you can install everything right away

```
su -
apt update && apt install linux-image-$(uname -r)-dbg linux-headers-$(uname -r)
```

On Ubuntu to install the Kernel debug symbols please follow the following tutorial: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Debug%20Symbol%20Packages](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Debug%20Symbol%20Packages)

From the VM copy `/usr/lib/debug/boot/vmlinux-$(uname -r)` and `/boot/System.map-$(uname -r)` to your dom0, for example using scp.

# 8. Configure the VM's console <a name="section-8"></a>
---------------------------------
Inside the VM, edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `console=ttyS0` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` line. Run `update-grub` afterwards and `reboot`.

# 9. Build the kernel's debug JSON profile <a name="section-9"></a>
---------------------------------
Back in dom0, we'll convert the dwarf debug information to json that we copied in Step 7.  We'll need Go 1.13 or newer for this. You can install it using snap as follows:

```
sudo snap install --classic go
```

If you distro's repository has go 1.13 or newer you can also install it from there (package name is golang-go).

Now we can build dwarf2json and generate the JSON profile. Change the paths to match your setup and make sure your dom0 has enough RAM as this may take up a lot of it.

```
cd dwarf2json
go build
./dwarf2json linux --elf /path/to/vmlinux --system-map /path/to/System.map > ~/debian.json
cd ..
```

# 10. Compile & install Capstone <a name="section-10"></a>
---------------------------------
We use a more recent version from the submodule (4.0.2) then what most distros ship by default. If your distro ships a newer version you could also just install `libcapstone-dev`.

```
cd capstone
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig
cd ../..
```

# 11. Compile & install LibVMI <a name="section-11"></a>
---------------------------------
```
cd libvmi
autoreconf -vif
./configure --disable-kvm --disable-bareflank --disable-file
make -j4
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig
cd ..
```

Test that base VMI works with:
```
sudo vmi-process-list --name debian --json ~/debian.json
```

# 12. Compile kfx <a name="section-12"></a>
---------------------------------
```
autoreconf -vif
./configure
make -j4
```

# 13. Patch AFL <a name="section-13"></a>
---------------------------------
```
cd AFL
patch -p1 < ../patches/0001-AFL-Xen-mode.patch
make
cd ..
```

# 14. Add harness to target kernel module or function <a name="section-14"></a>
---------------------------------
The target kernel module needs to be harnessed using two CPUID instructions with leaf 0x13371337.
See the `testmodule` folder for an example.

```
static inline void harness(void)
{
    unsigned int tmp;

    asm volatile ("cpuid"
                  : "=a" (tmp)
                  : "a" (0x13371337)
                  : "bx", "cx", "dx");
}
```

You can insert the harness before and after the code segment you want to fuzz:

```
    harness();
    x = test((int)test1[0]);
    harness();
```

You can also use software breakpoints (0xCC) as your harness which can be placed by standard debuggers like GDB. Use `--harness-type breakpoint` for this mode, which is particularly useful when you don't have access to the target's source-code to compile it with the CPUID-based harness.

# 15. Setup the VM for fuzzing <a name="section-15"></a>
---------------------------------
Start `./kfx`  with the `--setup` option specified. This will wait for the domain to issue the harness CPUID and will leave the domain paused. This ensures that the VM is at the starting location of the code we want to fuzz when we fork it.

```
sudo ./kfx --domain debian --json ~/debian.json --setup
```

You may optionally want to do this in a `screen` session, or you will need a separate shell to continue.

# 16. Connect to the VM's console <a name="section-16"></a>
---------------------------------
```
sudo xl console debian
```

You should see a login screen when you press enter. Proceed to login.

# 17. Insert the target kernel module <a name="section-17"></a>
---------------------------------
There is a testmodule included with the repository, you can copy it into the VM and compile it simply by running `make`. Afterwards, load it via:

```
sudo insmod testmodule.ko
```

The VM's console should now appear frozen. This is normal and what's expected. You can exit the console with `CTRL+]`. The `kfx` should have now also exited with a message `Parent ready`.

# 18. Start fuzzing using AFL <a name="section-18"></a>
---------------------------------
Everything is now ready for fuzzing to begin. The kernel fuzzer takes the input with `--input` flag, its size via `--input-limit` and the target memory address to write it to via `--address`. With AFL the input file path needs to be `@@`. You also have to first seed your fuzzer with an input that doesn't produces a crash in the code segment being fuzzed.

```
mkdir input
mkdir output
echo -n "not_beef" > input/beef
sudo ./AFL/afl-fuzz -i input/ -o output/ -m 500 -X -- ./kfx --domain debian --json ~/debian.json --input @@ --input-limit 8 --address 0x<KERNEL VIRTUAL ADDRESS TO WRITE INPUT TO>
```

You can also specify the `--limit` option of how many control-flow instructions you want to encounter before timing out the fuzz iteration. This is an alternative to the AFL built-in time-out model.

The speed of the fuzzer will vary based on how much code you are fuzzing. The more code you are exercising the fewer iterations per second you will see. The testmodule included with the project has been observed to produce a speed of 200-600 iterations per second on i5 family CPUs. Don't forget: you can run multiple instances of the fuzzer to speed things up even further by utilizing more CPU cores on your machine.

After you are finished with fuzzing, the VM can be unpaused and should resume normally without any side-effects.

# 19. Debugging <a name="section-19"></a>
---------------------------------
You can run the kernel fuzzer directly to inject an input into a VM fork without AFL, adding the `--debug` option will provide you with a verbose output.

```
sudo ./kfx --domain debian --json ~/debian.json --debug --input /path/to/input/file --input-limit <MAX SIZE TO WRITE> --address 0x<KERNEL VIRTUAL ADDRESS TO WRITE INPUT TO>
```

# 20. FAQ
---------------------------------

> Can I run this on ring3 applications?

You likely get better performance if you run AFL natively on a ring3 application but nothing prevents you from running it via this tool. You would need to adjust the sink points in `src/sink.h` to catch the crash handlers that are called for ring3 apps. For example `do_trap_error` in Linux handles segfaults, you would probably want to catch that.

> Can I fuzz Windows?

This tool currently only targets Linux. You can modify the harness to target Windows or any other operating system by adjusting the sink points in `src/sink.h` that are used to catch a crash condition. You could also manually define the sink points' addresses in case the operating system is not supported by LibVMI. In case you want to fuzz closed-source portions of Windows where you can't inject the `cpuid`-based harness, you can use `--harness breakpoint` to switch to using breakpoints as your harness. This allows you to mark the code-region to fuzz with a standard debugger like WinDBG.

> Can I just pipe /dev/random in as fuzzing input?

Yes! You can use `--loopmode` to simply read input from whatever source you want and pipe it into the VM forks. In this mode coverage trace is disabled so you will see more iterations per second.

> How do I shutdown the VM after I'm done?

You can issue `xl shutdown <domain name>` to initiate shutdown. If there are VM forks active, you need to issue `xl destroy <domain id>` for each fork before shutdown.

> Any tricks to increase performance?

To max out performance you can boot Xen with "dom0_max_vcpus=2 sched=null spec-ctrl=no-xen" which assigns only 2 vCPUs to dom0, disables the scheduler and speculative execution hardening features. You can also add "smt=0" to disable hyper-threading. Make sure your system has enough physical cores to run each vCPU as they get pinned.

> Is it possible to run the tool nested?

Yes, it has been tested running on top of VMware Workstation. In the VMware VM's CPU settings make sure to enable the "Virtualize Intel VT-x/EPT" option. Performance will be lower as compared to running it directly on the hardware.

---------------------------------
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others
